## Capital Assets Pricing Model (CAPM)

**What is a portfolio**?
- It is a weighted sum of the assets.
- w<sub>i</sub>: It is the proportion of funds in assets i
    - 0.6 in Apple, 0.2 in Google, 0.2 in Oracle
- $\sum w_i$ = 1.0
    - sum of the **sabsolute** values of the weights should be 1.0 or 100%

**What are the returns on a portfolio?**

r<sub>p</sub>(t) = $\sum_i w_i r_i$(t)
- This gives the return of a portfolio for that day.
- For each asset, i, it is the sum of (wight of the asset * return for that day of the asset)

**EX:** You have 2 stocks in your portfolio, Stock A & Stock B. You have 75% of your portfolio in stock A (w<sub>A</sub>) & -25% in Stock B (w<sub>B</sub>). This means we are shorting stock B. On that day, stock A went up 1% and stock B went down 2%.
What is the return on your portfolio for that day?

**Ans:**<br>
Stock A: +1% <br>
Stock B: -2% <br> 
w<sub>A</sub>: 75%<br>
w<sub>B</sub>: -25% (We are shorting)<br>
Portfolio return, r<sub>p</sub>(t) = $\sum_i w_i r_i$(t) is:<br>
=> 0.75 * 0.01 + (-0.25) * (-0.02)<br>
=> 0.0075 + 0.005 = 0.0125<br>
=> 1.25%
<hr>

## Market Portfolio
When we talk about markets, we normally mean indexes that cover large set of stocks. For example,<br>
MARKETS:<br>
**US**: SP500<br>
**UK**: FTA<br>
**Japan**: TOPIX<br>
Most of the indexes are ***Cap weighted***: 
w<sub>i</sub> = mktcap<sub>i</sub> / $\sum_j mktcap_j$ 
- w<sub>i</sub>: individual weight of each stock in the portfolio is set according to that stock's market cap.
- mktcap<sub>i</sub>: #of stocks * $price
- $\sum_j mktcap_j$ : Sum of the market caps of all the stocks.
<hr>

## Captial Asset Pricing Model (CAPM) Formula: 

r<sub>i</sub>(t) = $\beta$<sub>i</sub>*r<sub>m</sub> * t + $\alpha$<sub>i</sub> * t
- r<sub>i</sub>(t): Return for an individual stock on a particular date.
- r<sub>m</sub> * t: Return on the market on that date.
    - Market return, like mentioned above, is talking about SP500 return
This equation asserts that a significant portion of the return for a particular stock is due to the market. The market moving up or down strongly affects each individual stock's movement.
- $\beta$<sub>i</sub>: Captures the extent to which the market movement affects a particular stock.
    - Every stock has its individual beta.
- $\alpha$<sub>i</sub> * t: Residual component.
- **CAPM** says 
    - $\alpha$<sub>i</sub> * t has an ***expected value*** of Zero. 
    - It is totally random.
- $\alpha$ & $\beta$ values are computed from the daily returns. Remember the previous project on daily returns.
    - In particular how daily returns of a particular stock relate to the daily returns of the market.