- Passive Management: Buy index and hold.
- Acitve Management: pick individual stocks.
    - We normally attribute higher weights to some stocks and lower weights to some.
    - Weights could be 0 or negative as well.

CAPM: r<sub>i</sub>(t) = $\beta$<sub>i</sub>*r<sub>m</sub> * t + $\alpha$<sub>i</sub> * t
- **CAPM** says 2 things about $\alpha$
    - $\alpha$<sub>i</sub> * t has an ***expected value*** of Zero. 
    - It is totally random.
    - The above 2 points basically mean that $\alpha$ is completely random with a mean = 0.
- Both active and passive management agree with this part of the equation: $\beta$<sub>i</sub>*r<sub>m</sub> * t 
    - Meaning how a stock moves is influenced by the market movement. The amount the individual stock moves is strongly related to $\beta$
- Active managers believe they can predict $\alpha$
- Passive managers believe that $\alpha$ is random.
<hr>

## CAPM for Portfolio
Remeber that a Portfolio is a weighted sum of the assets. How much of your funds have you allocated to each stock.

r<sub>i</sub>(t) = $\beta$<sub>i</sub>*r<sub>m</sub> * t + $\alpha$<sub>i</sub> * t
- return for an individual stock on a particular date = $\beta$<sub>i</sub> * Return on the market for that day + $\alpha$<sub>i</sub> for that particular day.

To compute return for the entire portfolio:
- r<sub>i</sub>(t) = $\sum _i$ w<sub>i</sub>($\beta$<sub>i</sub>*r<sub>m</sub> * t + $\alpha$<sub>i</sub> * t)
    - w<sub>i</sub> is the weight allocated to that stock. It is what percentage of funds are allocated to that stock.

We can calucalte $\beta$ for the entire portfolio using: **$\beta$<sub>p</sub> = $\sum _i$ W<sub>i</sub>$\beta$<sub>i</sub>**
- $\beta$ for the overall portfolio is a weighted sum of the individual $\beta$ for each of the stocks.
- **$\beta$<sub>p</sub>** is the $\beta$ of the entire portfolio.

Now, CAPM equation becomes:
- For Passive Mangers:
    - r<sub></sub>(t) = $\beta$<sub>p</sub>r<sub>m</sub> (t) + $\alpha$<sub>p</sub> t
    - $\alpha$<sub>p</sub> t it is the portfolio $\alpha$
- For Active Mangers: They also agree the $\beta$ componenet is the same but:
    - r<sub></sub>(t) = $\beta$<sub>p</sub>r<sub>m</sub> (t) + $\sum _i$ W<sub>i</sub>$\alpha$<sub>i</sub> (t)